Title: Focus
Category: tech
Tags: procrastination, focus, gtd
Author: Maciej Lasyk
Summary: About focusing on your work

<center>![Focus]({filename}/images/focus.jpg)</center>

# Focus #

In 2001 a friend of mine wrote me via IM one sentence which remains in my
memory up to now. It was about 1am and he wrote:

> I've done nothing constructive for the last 30 minutes. I'm going to bed.

He lost his focus. He was tired and started to procrastinate. He was my mentor
in the terms of [Getting Things
Done](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Getting_Things_Done).

I was a student that times. For me it was rather normal to work until falling
asleep on the keyboard. I just couldn't tell myself "enough, go to bed"..
That's why that sentence was so important for me.


# Pomodoro #

I find [Pomodoro](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pomodoro_Technique) technique
very helpful when having problems with concentrating or my plate is totally
full. Just find your way through **pomidori** and after full set of 4 go
outside for 15-30 mins. That really helps.


# Limit your WIP #

That is taken from
[Kanban](http://www.agileweboperations.com/kanban-wip-limits-the-fine-art-of-focus).
I wouldn't be able to use Pomodoro having couple of tasks running
together. If I want to be efficient I have to **remove any context switching**
and work only on one task at a time. Kanban or Scrum ensures that I can focus
on one particular job.


# Remove distractors #

Using [XFCE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xfce) I can easily remove almost all
distractors simply by pressing **F11**. That gives me fullscreen mode of
current window hiding any blinking icons in the system bar.

Also I removed any focus - stealing apps etc (e.g. Skype tried to get my focus
when receiving new message etc).

Finally I learned to check all notifiers every single pomidori starts. So this
is the time I look at the calendar, e-mail, Skype and so on. Then I just put
down to the [Workflowy](https://workflowy.com/) list of micro - tasks for this
day (reply e-mail, schedule meeting etc) and go on with the main job. So I can
use one of the pomidoris just for dealing with those micro - jobs (it's great
after lunch when feeling sleepy).

I also removed any notifications and LED blinking from all my cell - phones.
This was quite a huge time - saver. Even after work I just don't have this
feeling of checking that blinking LED. I just check my private e-mail like 5
times a day. It's enough.

# Take control #

Some time ago I felt like social networks were taking control over me. Having
Facebook app in the phone just made me poke around it almost unconsciously /
automatically. So instead of reading something valuable (like RSSes or Kindle)
I simply burnt my time on some bullshit. So I just removed all those apps from
my phone. It was fucking genius. No more bullshit, distracting myself etc. Time
saved - profit.

# Isolate #

Just buy yourself good head / earphones and use Spotify / Deezer. Working in an
open - space (or similiar) area is sometimes fatiguing.

# Win #

Yup - with the ability to focus on my job I simply win my time. And that gives
me oppurtunity to do a lot more. Great win for anyone that is interested in
almost all field of life ;)

But.. truly to be winners we have to practice all the time. Loosing focus is
very easy and kinda natural. So we have to control it. Good luck :)
