Title: IT night 2014 recap & slides
Date: 2014-06-01 21:20
Author: docent
Category: conferences, meetups
Tags: bash, earthquake, finch, guake, irc, irssi, meetup, mutt, newsbeuter, rss, screen, terminal, terminator, tmux, twitter, vim, xmpp, zsh
Slug: it-night-2014-recap-slides
Status: published

<!--:en-->

[![IT Night
2014](http://maciek.lasyk.info/sysop/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/10413261_238562203006933_386795099_n-300x300.jpg){.aligncenter
.size-medium .wp-image-565 width="300"
height="300"}](http://maciek.lasyk.info/sysop/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/10413261_238562203006933_386795099_n.jpg)

First of all - this is a coolest event badge ever. Seriously - it's
awesomeness is about zoundsss! Thanks guys again for that!

So this night is over, I think we all had already enough sleep and now
we're able to do some recap. First of all - hard to say for me but this
was my first IT night; somehow it happened that I couldn't make it
earlier (7 years to narrow it as this was 8th edition - lol). What was
this night about? Everything that was somehow connected to IT topics;
there were gaming consoles, Linux Millionaire - like trivia, throwing
HDDs challenge, assembling PC challenge etc - all the things we did and
we love or hate :) And of course - there were many talks given by
awesome people (lol - including me) ;) But honestly - every one person
who attended this night was really awesome - We could talk a lot with
almost everyone and did not get bored :)

So - if you weren't there - regret this all 365 following days and
register to the next edition - it's really a must - be event :) And for
organizers - guys - you did a tremendous and great job - thank you for
that!

My talk was about living and working in terminal. You can find this on
Slideshare (embedded below). I also created GitHub project where I will
develop those topics through the time. Wanna help? No prob - just ping
me somehow ;)

<iframe width="476" height="400" src="http://www.slideshare.net/slideshow/embed_code/35362042" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no"></iframe><!--:--><!--:pl-->[![IT
Night
2014](http://maciek.lasyk.info/sysop/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/10413261_238562203006933_386795099_n-300x300.jpg){.aligncenter
width="300"
height="300"}](http://maciek.lasyk.info/sysop/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/10413261_238562203006933_386795099_n.jpg)

First of all - this is a coolest event badge ever. Seriously - it's
awesomeness is about zoundsss! Thanks guys again for that!

So this night is over, I think we all had already enough sleep and now
we're able to do some recap. First of all - hard to say for me but this
was my first IT night; somehow it happened that I couldn't make it
earlier (7 years to narrow it as this was 8th edition - lol). What was
this night about? Everything that was somehow connected to IT topics;
there were gaming consoles, Linux Millionaire - like trivia, throwing
HDDs challenge, assembling PC challenge etc - all the things we did and
we love or hate :) And of course - there were many talks given by
awesome people (lol - including me) ;) But honestly - every one person
who attended this night was really awesome - We could talk a lot with
almost everyone and did not get bored :)

So - if you weren't there - regret this all 365 following days and
register to the next edition - it's really a must - be event :) And for
organizers - guys - you did a tremendous and great job - thank you for
that!

My talk was about living and working in terminal. You can find this on
Slideshare (embedded below). I also created GitHub project where I will
develop those topics through the time. Wanna help? No prob - just ping
me somehow ;)

![](https://maciek.lasyk.info:445/sysop/wp-includes/js/tinymce/themes/advanced/img/trans.gif){width="476"
height="400"}<!--:-->
